.TH IPWATCHD 8
.SH NAME
ipwatchd \- IP conflict detection tool for Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipwatchd --config
.I config_file
.B [\-\-debug]
.B [\-\-test]
.br
.B ipwatchd \-\-version
.br
.B ipwatchd \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
IPwatchD is a simple daemon that analyses all incoming ARP packets in order to detect IP conflicts.
.PP
Default configuration file uses "automatic configuration mode" with "passive protection mode" and it should be the best option for most systems.
.PP
Configuration mode applies to the daemon instance and it specifies how the list of network interfaces that should be monitored will be obtained. In
.B automatic
configuration mode IPwatchD detects all network interfaces automatically and sets passive protection mode for them. In
.B manual
configuration mode it is up to the system administrator to specify list of interfaces and protection modes in configuration file.
.PP
Protection mode specifies the action that will be performed when IP conflict is detected. In
.B active
protection mode IPwatchD protects your host before IP takeover by answering gratuitous ARP requests received from conflicting system. In
.B passive
protection mode it just records information about IP conflict through standard syslog interface.
.PP
IPwatchD also supports execution of user defined scripts. See
.BR ipwatchd.conf (5)
and
.BR ipwatchd-script (1)
for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP
.B "\-c \-\-config"
Specifies path to configuration file.
.TP
.B "\-d \-\-debug"
Enables debug mode. Debug information are recorded through syslog with "daemon" facility and "debug" priority.
.TP
.B "\-t \-\-test"
Enables testing mode that is useful only for debugging. In this mode every received ARP packet is considered to be conflicting.
.TP
.B "\-v \-\-version"
Prints program version to standard output.
.TP
.B "\-h \-\-help"
Prints short help information to standard output.
.SH CONFIGURATION
See
.BR ipwatchd.conf (5)
for more details.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jaroslav Imrich <jariq@jariq.sk>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipwatchd.conf (5),
.BR ipwatchd-script (1)
